---
title: 14. Printing Drafts
---
**Introduction**  
In this module you will learn how to print a draft of your translation for checking and revising.

**Before you start**  
You have entered and checked your translation in Paratext 9 and are now ready to print out a copy. Your project must be registered before you can print.

**Why is this important?**  
It is much easier to revise and check your work on paper than on the computer. You can also give it to more people if it is on paper.

**What you are going to do**  
You will first produce a PDF version of your translation, which you can print or share with others (including non-Paratext users). If necessary, you can copy the PDF file onto your USB stick and take it to a computer with a printer.


## 14.1 Create a PDF file
:::caution
Make sure you have completed the **markers check** before printing a draft.
:::

1.  **≡ Tab**, under **Project** \> **Export Draft PDF**
1.  Check that your project is selected.
1.  Choose which book(s) and chapters or priority to print.  

### Choose the page settings as follows
1.  Page size:
    -  210mm, 297mm (A4) or  
    -  148mm, 210mm (A5)
2.  Columns: 1
3.  Margins:  
    -  25 mm (for A4) or  
    -  12 mm (for A5)
  
### Choose the font for the text
1.  Text body font: Charis SIL (or Charis SIL Compact)
2.  Size: 10 (or 11)
  
### Choose the layout settings
1. Line spacing:  
     -  1.0 (for single spacing)

### Choose the advanced settings
1.  Click on the **Advanced** tab
9.  Choose the fonts
10. Choose what you want in the **Running header** (the text at the top of the page).
11. Check **mirror layout on odd and even pages**
12. Make any other choices as needed.
13. Click **OK** and wait, the file will open in your PDF reader.  
    -  *If there are marker errors, a message box will appear*. 
        -  Click **No**, then correct the errors and try again.

:::tip
The first time you print a draft it takes a long time collecting information on the fonts. But it will be much quicker the next time.
:::
:::info
With Paratext’s Export to PDF feature, each chapter will start on a new page! You may want to consider **ptxprint** a companion software for **[Paratext](https://paratext.org/)**, PTXprint allows you to create high quality PDFs for trial publications of scripture. Available from https://software.sil.org/ptxprint/
:::

## 14.2 Print a PDF
In Adobe Reader

1.  (Make sure the PDF file is open.)
1.  **File** \> **Print**
1.  For A5
    -  Choose **Booklet**
    -  Orientation: **Portrait** (for newer printers or landscape for older printers especially Win7)
1.  To print double-sided
    - Click on the **Printer Properties** button
      - *A dialog is displayed which will may be different but will have a way of setting double-sided.* For example
      - Click on **Finishing**
      - Choose **duplex** or **two sided**.
      - Click **OK**
     - Click **Print**

:::tip
If you want to follow a punctuation system (such as French) and have spaces automatically inserted before complex punctuation, then see a consultant to have changes made to your PrintDraftChanges.txt
:::

## 14.3 Copy PDF file to a USB stick
:::info
Paratext saves the PDF file in the PrintDrafts folder of your project folder. For example, C:\\My Paratext 9 Projects\\XXX\\PrintDraft
:::

:::tip
There are many ways to copy files. One method is described below.
:::
1.  Hold the Windows Key and type **E**   
    -  *Windows Explorer opens.*
1.  Go to your **My Paratext 8 Projects** folder.
1.  Double-click on your project folder
1.  Double-click the **PrintDraft** folder
1.  Right-click on the desired PDF file
1.  Choose **Send to**
1.  Choose your USB stick.
